[Blog] Introduction blog post (#154)
SAP/ai-sdk-java: docs/blog/Introducing.md

# Introducing the SAP Cloud SDK for AI (Java) 🎉

> SAP Managed Tags: Artificial Intelligence, JavaScript, SAP AI Core, SAP AI Launchpad, SAP Cloud SDK, SAP Business Technology Platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SAP Managed Tags: Artificial Intelligence, Java, SAP AI Core, SAP AI Launchpad, SAP Cloud SDK, SAP Business Technology Platform
```

---

We’re excited to announce the initial release of the [SAP Cloud SDK for AI](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java#readme) for Java!
This SDK enables integration of generative AI capabilities within your SAP Business Technology Platform (BTP) applications and allows you to utilize the [Generative AI Hub](https://help.sap.com/docs/sap-ai-core/sap-ai-core-service-guide/generative-ai-hub-in-sap-ai-core) in [SAP AI Core](https://help.sap.com/docs/sap-ai-core/sap-ai-core-service-guide/what-is-sap-ai-core).

> For SAP BTP developers, the SAP Cloud SDK for AI is crafted to simplify AI integration and enhance application impact. With features that optimize deployment, improve content safety, and facilitate model orchestration, this SDK lets you bring advanced AI functionality to your applications swiftly and with minimal setup. Whether you need adaptable workflows, secure data handling, or smooth generative model integration, this SDK equips you with robust tools to embed AI-powered features in your SAP BTP solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For SAP BTP developers, the AI SDK is crafted to simplify AI integration and enhance application impact. With features that optimize deployment, improve content safety, and facilitate model orchestration, the SDK lets you bring advanced AI functionality to your applications swiftly and with minimal setup. Whether you need adaptable workflows, secure data handling, or smooth generative model integration, the SDK equips you with robust tools to embed AI-powered features in your SAP BTP solutions.
```

This post introduces the main artifacts and their features.
## AI Orchestration

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.sap.ai.sdk</groupId>
  <artifactId>orchestration</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

Use the generative AI Hub orchestration service with our `orchestration` module to set up templating, content filtering, and data masking for your applications.
The orchestration service streamlines AI interactions while ensuring adherence to content safety guidelines.

* Templating: Build dynamic prompts with placeholders to tailor AI interactions to user inputs.
* Content Filtering: Apply filters to maintain compliance with content safety guidelines.
* Data Masking: Anonymize and pseudonymize sensitive data.
* Grounding:  Add external data sources for contextually relevant information (planned for Q1 2025).

**Example:** Chat completion. ([more](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java/blob/main/docs/guides/ORCHESTRATION_CHAT_COMPLETION.md))
```java
var client = new OrchestrationClient();

> var config = new OrchestrationModuleConfig().withLlmConfig(LLMModuleConfig.create().modelName("gpt-35-turbo"));
> var prompt = new OrchestrationPrompt("Hello world! Why is this phrase so famous?");
> var result = client.chatCompletion(prompt, config);
> 
> String messageResult =
>     result.getOrchestrationResult().getChoices().get(0).getMessage().getContent();

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
var config = new OrchestrationModuleConfig().withLlmConfig(OrchestrationAiModel.GPT_4O);
var prompt = new OrchestrationPrompt("Hello world! Why is this phrase so famous?");
var result = client.chatCompletion(prompt, config);

String messageResult = result.getContent();
```
From #157 and #152

  <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

The `openai` module, along with other artifacts in the `com.sap.ai.sdk.foundationmodels` group, enables streamlined access to specific generative AI models available through the Generative AI Hub.
The module provides a simplified interface focused on direct model interactions, ideal for developers who require direct access to foundation models for inference and embedding requests without additional orchestration features.

**Example:** Simple chat completion. ([more](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java/blob/main/docs/guides/OPENAI_CHAT_COMPLETION.md))
```java
var result = 
  OpenAiClient.forModel(GPT_35_TURBO)
    .withSystemPrompt("You are a helpful AI")
    .chatCompletion("Hello World! Why is this phrase so famous?");

String resultMessage = result.getContent();
```

## Getting Started

You will need _Java 17_ or higher.
_Spring Boot_ or _SAP CAP_ as a framework is recommended, but not required.
To explore these packages further, check out [our sample project](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java/tree/main/sample-code/spring-app), which shows the usage of the various SDK packages.

## Support and Feedback

> We’d love your feedback on this first release! For support or to share your ideas, feel free to open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java/pulls).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We’d love your feedback on this first release! For support or to share your ideas, feel free to open an issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java/issues/new/choose).
```

## Latest News
* [SAP Cloud SDK for AI for JavaScript](https://community.sap.com/t5/technology-blogs-by-sap/introducing-the-sap-cloud-sdk-for-ai-javascript-typescript/ba-p/13892856) released in October 2024.
* Visit [sap.com/ai](https://www.sap.com/products/artificial-intelligence.html) and explore our portfolio
* Explore the available AI capabilities on [SAP Discovery Center](https://discovery-center.cloud.sap/serviceCatalog/sap-ai-core/?region=all).
* Discover the latest announcements in the [SAP TechEd Press Release](https://news.sap.com/?p=228310) and the [SAP TechEd News Guide](https://www.sap.com/events/teched/news-guide.html%22%20/t%20%22_blank).
* Review the [SAP Road Map Explorer](https://roadmaps.sap.com/board?range=FIRST-LAST&PRODUCT=73554900100800003641&PRODUCT=73555000100800003283%22%20\l%20%22Q3%202024%22%20\t%20%22_blank) for a detailed view of upcoming product innovations.

> * Join the [SAP Community](https://pages.community.sap.com/topics/ai-core-artificial-intelligence%22%20/t%20%22_blank) page to connect with experts and share knowledge.

Reviewer 2: 2 dead links in here

# Introducing the SAP Cloud SDK for AI (Java) 🎉

SAP Managed Tags: Artificial Intelligence, Java, SAP AI Core, SAP AI Launchpad, SAP Cloud SDK, SAP Business Technology Platform

---

We’re excited to announce the initial release of the [SAP Cloud SDK for AI](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java#readme) for Java!
This SDK enables integration of generative AI capabilities within your SAP Business Technology Platform (BTP) applications and allows you to utilize the [Generative AI Hub](https://help.sap.com/docs/sap-ai-core/sap-ai-core-service-guide/generative-ai-hub-in-sap-ai-core) in [SAP AI Core](https://help.sap.com/docs/sap-ai-core/sap-ai-core-service-guide/what-is-sap-ai-core).

> For SAP BTP developers, the AI SDK is crafted to simplify AI integration and enhance application impact. With features that optimize deployment, improve content safety, and facilitate model orchestration, the SDK lets you bring advanced AI functionality to your applications swiftly and with minimal setup. Whether you need adaptable workflows, secure data handling, or smooth generative model integration, the SDK equips you with robust tools to embed AI-powered features in your SAP BTP solutions.

Reviewer 4: Add a link to SAP BTP?
https://help.sap.com/docs/btp?locale=en-US

> This post introduces the main artifacts and their features.

Reviewer 4: Further down, you have used "modules" (see the section for core module).
I would recommend replacing `artifacts` with `modules` - the latter is more accurate. It also makes the terminology more consistent.

> ## AI Orchestration

Reviewer 4: Drop `AI` from the title of this section (and all subsequent module titles)?

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.sap.ai.sdk</groupId>
  <artifactId>orchestration</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

> Use the generative AI Hub orchestration service with our `orchestration` module to set up templating, content filtering, and data masking for your applications.

Reviewer 4: How about

This module lets you use the generative AI Hub orchestration service...

Author: ```suggestion
This `orchestration` module lets you use the generative AI Hub orchestration service with templating, content filtering, and data masking from within your applications.
```

The orchestration service streamlines AI interactions while ensuring adherence to content safety guidelines.

* Templating: Build dynamic prompts with placeholders to tailor AI interactions to user inputs.
* Content Filtering: Apply filters to maintain compliance with content safety guidelines.
* Data Masking: Anonymize and pseudonymize sensitive data.

> * Grounding:  Add external data sources for contextually relevant information (planned for Q1 2025).

Reviewer 4: Also, I realised that the TypeScript blog post mentions Grounding is expected to be available in Q4/2024. You may want to fix that.
https://community.sap.com/t5/technology-blogs-by-sap/introducing-the-sap-cloud-sdk-for-ai-javascript-typescript/ba-p/13892856

> **Example:** Write a simple chat completion.

Reviewer 4: Example SDK code:

```java
var client = new OrchestrationClient();
var config = new OrchestrationModuleConfig().withLlmConfig(OrchestrationAiModel.GPT_4O);
var prompt = new OrchestrationPrompt("Hello world! Why is this phrase so famous?");
var result = client.chatCompletion(prompt, config);

String messageResult = result.getContent();
```

> You can learn more about the orchestration service capabilities [here](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java/blob/main/docs/guides/ORCHESTRATION_CHAT_COMPLETION.md).

Reviewer 4: Usually, it is not considered a good practice to add hyperlinks to "here". Read this blog post on Medium.
https://heyoka.medium.com/dont-use-click-here-f32f445d1021

Rather add hyper link to [orchestration service capabilities].
There are may other experts who endorse this view :-)

Though, at the end it is the author's personal writing style. There are no "rights" or "wrongs" here.

> ## AI Management

Reviewer 4: `Management` is not immediately clear as a title. 

I would also bring it above the `Orchestration` module.

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.sap.ai.sdk</groupId>
  <artifactId>core</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

Automate tasks such as creating artifacts, configurations, and deployments, executing batch inference jobs, as well as managing Docker registries and object storage for training data.
The `core` module provides tools for workflow and scenario management within SAP AI Core.

> * Artifact Management: Register and organize datasets and model artifacts.

Reviewer 4: Artifact management: register and ...
Configuration management: set up ...
Deployment management: deploy ..

(use lower cases when not necessary otherwise).

* Configuration Management: Set up configurations for various models and use cases.
* Deployment Management: Deploy AI models and manage their lifecycle within SAP AI Core.

**Example:** Create a deployment in SAP AI Core.

```java
var api = new DeploymentApi();
var resourceGroupId = "default";
var request =
  AiDeploymentCreationRequest.create().configurationId("12345-123-123-123-123456abcdefg");

AiDeploymentCreationResponse deployment = api.create(resourceGroupId, request);
String id = deployment.getId();
AiExecutionStatus status = deployment.getStatus();
```

> You can learn more about the SAP AI Core capabilities [here](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java/blob/main/docs/guides/AI_CORE_DEPLOYMENT.md).

Reviewer 4: Same with `here`. :-)

> ## Generative AI with Foundation Models and OpenAI

Reviewer 4: Why OpenAI specifically?
Pardon my ignorance, if other models are available too, then mention that OpenAI is taken only as an example. Also add a link to a list of all models available in the SDK.

If it is only OpenAI for now, then state as such, adding that others will be added later (if they would be).

Author: @jjtang1985 is it okay to phrase the limitation and outlook [like that..](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java/pull/154/files/9523843c656d3d215aca8a12a5ba65f20d853f00..fee161f46d8b234f179a0ce04cacfeade62e5dea)?

> Currently only `openai` is supported.
> We are planning support for `vertex-ai` and `anthropic` soon - depending on user feedback.

Reviewer 4: In that case, also add how to add feedback - that is pointer to create an issue (if you are inviting for it already). Otherwise the reader will wonder - where to give feedback.

Reviewer 3: I would only add the following.
> Currently only openai is supported.
> Please open a [feature request](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java/issues/new/choose), if you need direct LLM access for other foundation models.

> ## Generative AI with Foundation Models and OpenAI

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Generative AI with Foundation Models
```

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.sap.ai.sdk.foundationmodels</groupId>
  <artifactId>openai</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

The `openai` module, along with other artifacts in the `com.sap.ai.sdk.foundationmodels` group, enables streamlined access to specific generative AI models available through the Generative AI Hub.
The module provides a simplified interface focused on direct model interactions, ideal for developers who require direct access to foundation models for inference and embedding requests without additional orchestration features.

**Example:** Write a simple chat completion.

```java
var result = 
  OpenAiClient.forModel(GPT_35_TURBO)
    .withSystemPrompt("You are a helpful AI")
    .chatCompletion("Hello World! Why is this phrase so famous?");

String resultMessage = result.getContent();
```

> You can learn more about the foundation models and OpenAI specific capabilities [here](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java/blob/main/docs/guides/OPENAI_CHAT_COMPLETION.md).

Reviewer 4: `here`. :-)

## Getting Started

You will need _Java 17_ or higher.

> _Spring Boot_ or _SAP CAP_ as a framework is recommended, but not required.

Reviewer 4: I would use full form - Cloud Application Programming Model (CAP), and add a link:
https://cap.cloud.sap/docs/

The Orchestration Service streamlines AI interactions while ensuring adherence to content safety guidelines.

* Templating: Build dynamic prompts with placeholders to tailor AI interactions to user inputs.
* Content Filtering: Apply filters to maintain compliance with content safety guidelines.
* Data Masking: Anonymize and pseudonymize sensitive data.
* Grounding:  Add external data sources for contextually relevant information (planned for Q1 2025).

**Example SDK code:** Write a simple chat completion.

```java
var client = new OrchestrationClient();
var config = new OrchestrationModuleConfig().withLlmConfig(OrchestrationAiModel.GPT_4O);
var prompt = new OrchestrationPrompt("Hello world! Why is this phrase so famous?");
var result = client.chatCompletion(prompt, config);

String messageResult = result.getContent();
```

You can learn more about the SDK's capabilities for Orchestration Service [in the public repository guide](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java/blob/main/docs/guides/ORCHESTRATION_CHAT_COMPLETION.md).

> ## AI Core - Foundation Models and OpenAI

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## AI Core - Foundation Models
```

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.sap.ai.sdk.foundationmodels</groupId>
  <artifactId>openai</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
```

The `openai` module, along with other modules in the `com.sap.ai.sdk.foundationmodels` group, enables streamlined access to specific generative AI models available through the Generative AI Hub.
The module provides a simplified interface focused on direct model interactions, ideal for developers who require direct access to foundation models for inference and embedding requests without additional orchestration features.

> Currently only `openai` is supported.
> We are planning support for `vertex-ai` and `anthropic` soon - depending on user feedback.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Currently only `openai` is supported.
Please open a [feature request](https://github.com/SAP/ai-sdk-java/issues/new/choose), if you need direct LLM access for other foundation models.
```
